OwnAudio/Examples/Ownaudio.Example.HTDemucs/README.md, before:

# HTDemucs Audio Stem Separation Example

This example demonstrates how to use the **HTDemucsAudioSeparator** class to separate audio files into individual stems (vocals, drums, bass, and other instruments).

## What is HTDemucs?

HTDemucs (Hybrid Transformer Demucs) is a state-of-the-art neural network for music source separation. It can separate a mixed audio track into:

- **Vocals**: Singing and speech
- **Drums**: Percussion instruments
- **Bass**: Bass guitar and low-frequency instruments
- **Other**: All other instruments (guitars, keyboards, strings, etc.)

## Model Setup

The HTDemucs model is **embedded as a resource** in the OwnaudioNET assembly. You don't need to download or manage the model file separately!

### Using the Embedded Model (Recommended)

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs,  // Use embedded resource
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    // ... other options
};
```

### Using an External Model File (Optional)

If you have a custom HTDemucs ONNX model:

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    ModelPath = @"path/to/custom/htdemucs.onnx",
    Model = InternalModel.None,  // Don't use embedded model
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    // ... other options
};
```

## Requirements

1. **Audio File**: Any supported audio format (MP3, WAV, FLAC)

2. **GPU (Optional)**: CUDA or DirectML for faster processing
   - CPU processing works but is slower (~10-15x realtime)
   - GPU processing is much faster (~50-100x realtime)

## Usage

### 1. Update Configuration

Edit `Program.cs` and update the audio file path:

```csharp
string audioFilePath = @"path/to/your/audio/music.mp3";
string outputDirectory = @"output_htdemucs";
```

### 2. Run the Example

```bash
dotnet run
```

### 3. Output

The program will create separate WAV files for each stem in the output directory:

```
output_htdemucs/
├── music_vocals.wav
├── music_drums.wav
├── music_bass.wav
└── music_other.wav
```

## Configuration Options

### HTDemucsSeparationOptions

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs,  // Use embedded model
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    ChunkSizeSeconds = 10,           // Chunk size (10-30s recommended)
    OverlapFactor = 0.25f,           // Overlap between chunks (0.25 = 25%)
    EnableGPU = true,                // Use GPU acceleration
    TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.All   // Which stems to extract
};
```

### Stem Selection

You can choose which stems to extract:

```csharp
// Extract only vocals and other
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.Vocals | HTDemucsStem.Other;

// Extract only drums
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.Drums;

// Extract all stems (default)
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.All;
```

### Chunk Size

- **Smaller chunks (5-10s)**: Lower memory usage, slightly slower
- **Larger chunks (20-30s)**: Higher memory usage, slightly faster
- **Recommended**: 10 seconds for most use cases

### GPU Acceleration

The separator automatically tries to use GPU acceleration:

1. **CUDA** (NVIDIA GPUs) - First choice
2. **DirectML** (Windows, any GPU) - Second choice
3. **CPU** - Fallback

Set `EnableGPU = false` to force CPU processing.

## Helper Methods

The library provides convenient helper methods:

### Using Embedded Model

```csharp
// Create default separator (all stems)
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateDefaultSeparator("output_directory");
separator.Initialize();
var result = separator.Separate("music.mp3");

// Create selector for specific stems
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateStemSelector(
    HTDemucsStem.Vocals | HTDemucsStem.Other,
    "output_directory"
);
```

### Using External Model File

```csharp
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateFromFile(
    "path/to/htdemucs.onnx",
    "output_directory"
);
```

## Progress Tracking

The example includes progress tracking:

```csharp
separator.ProgressChanged += (s, progress) =>
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{progress.Status}: {progress.OverallProgress:F1}%");
    Console.WriteLine($"Chunks: {progress.ProcessedChunks}/{progress.TotalChunks}");
};

separator.ProcessingCompleted += (s, result) =>
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Completed in {result.ProcessingTime}");
    Console.WriteLine($"Extracted {result.StemCount} stems");
};
```

## Performance

Typical performance on various hardware:

| Hardware | Processing Speed | Example (3 min song) |
|----------|------------------|---------------------|
| CPU (16 cores) | 10-15x realtime | ~12-18 seconds |
| GPU (NVIDIA RTX 3060) | 50-100x realtime | ~2-4 seconds |
| GPU (NVIDIA RTX 4090) | 100-150x realtime | ~1-2 seconds |

## Memory Usage

- **Chunk-based processing**: ~500-800 MB for 10s chunks
- **Full song**: Memory scales with chunk size, not total duration
- **4 stems output**: Each stem is same size as input audio

## Code Architecture

The implementation uses OwnAudioEngine's high-performance converters:

- **AudioDecoderFactory**: Loads and decodes audio files
- **AudioFormatConverter**: Resamples and converts channels
- **SimdAudioConverter**: SIMD-accelerated PCM to Float32 conversion

Key features:

- **Embedded model**: No external model file needed
- **Streaming processing**: Processes audio in chunks to minimize memory
- **Overlap-add reconstruction**: Smooth transitions between chunks
- **Zero-allocation design**: Reuses buffers to reduce GC pressure
- **Lock-free buffers**: Thread-safe audio processing

## Troubleshooting

### "Model is not set" or "Model file not found"

- If using embedded model: Ensure `Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs` is set
- If using external model: Check that `ModelPath` points to a valid .onnx file

### "Input file not found"

- Check the audio file path is correct
- Supported formats: MP3, WAV, FLAC

### "Out of memory"

- Reduce `ChunkSizeSeconds` (try 5 seconds)
- Close other applications
- Use a 64-bit build

### Slow processing

- Enable GPU acceleration: `EnableGPU = true`
- Install CUDA toolkit for NVIDIA GPUs
- Use larger chunks if you have enough memory

### Poor separation quality

- Ensure you're using a proper HTDemucs ONNX model
- Check that the embedded model was correctly included in the build
- Some audio (highly compressed, very old recordings) may not separate well

## Model Information

The embedded HTDemucs model is automatically included in the OwnaudioNET assembly as an embedded resource. This means:

✅ No need to download or manage model files
✅ Works immediately after installation
✅ Included in the NuGet package
✅ Portable across platforms

If you need to use a different or updated HTDemucs model, you can always provide an external model file path using the `ModelPath` option.

## License

This example is part of OwnAudioSharp and is licensed under the MIT License.

## Credits

- **HTDemucs Model**: Facebook Research (Hybrid Transformer Demucs)
- **OwnAudioSharp**: ModernMube
- **ONNX Runtime**: Microsoft

Commit message:

Update README with model file management details
Clarified the model file management and provided a download link due to GitHub size limits.

OwnAudio/Examples/Ownaudio.Example.HTDemucs/README.md, after:

# HTDemucs Audio Stem Separation Example

This example demonstrates how to use the **HTDemucsAudioSeparator** class to separate audio files into individual stems (vocals, drums, bass, and other instruments).

## What is HTDemucs?

HTDemucs (Hybrid Transformer Demucs) is a state-of-the-art neural network for music source separation. It can separate a mixed audio track into:

- **Vocals**: Singing and speech
- **Drums**: Percussion instruments
- **Bass**: Bass guitar and low-frequency instruments
- **Other**: All other instruments (guitars, keyboards, strings, etc.)

## Model Setup

The HTDemucs model is **embedded** as a resource in the OwnaudioNET NUGET package. You don't need to download or handle the model file separately!

The source code does not include the model file, due to Github size limits. You can download it from here: https://huggingface.co/ModernMube/HTDemucs_onnx/tree/main

### Using the Embedded Model (Recommended)

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs,  // Use embedded resource
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    // ... other options
};
```

### Using an External Model File (Optional)

If you have a custom HTDemucs ONNX model:

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    ModelPath = @"path/to/custom/htdemucs.onnx",
    Model = InternalModel.None,  // Don't use embedded model
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    // ... other options
};
```

## Requirements

1. **Audio File**: Any supported audio format (MP3, WAV, FLAC)

2. **GPU (Optional)**: CUDA or DirectML for faster processing
   - CPU processing works but is slower (~10-15x realtime)
   - GPU processing is much faster (~50-100x realtime)

## Usage

### 1. Update Configuration

Edit `Program.cs` and update the audio file path:

```csharp
string audioFilePath = @"path/to/your/audio/music.mp3";
string outputDirectory = @"output_htdemucs";
```

### 2. Run the Example

```bash
dotnet run
```

### 3. Output

The program will create separate WAV files for each stem in the output directory:

```
output_htdemucs/
├── music_vocals.wav
├── music_drums.wav
├── music_bass.wav
└── music_other.wav
```

## Configuration Options

### HTDemucsSeparationOptions

```csharp
var options = new HTDemucsSeparationOptions
{
    Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs,  // Use embedded model
    OutputDirectory = "output",
    ChunkSizeSeconds = 10,           // Chunk size (10-30s recommended)
    OverlapFactor = 0.25f,           // Overlap between chunks (0.25 = 25%)
    EnableGPU = true,                // Use GPU acceleration
    TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.All   // Which stems to extract
};
```

### Stem Selection

You can choose which stems to extract:

```csharp
// Extract only vocals and other
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.Vocals | HTDemucsStem.Other;

// Extract only drums
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.Drums;

// Extract all stems (default)
options.TargetStems = HTDemucsStem.All;
```

### Chunk Size

- **Smaller chunks (5-10s)**: Lower memory usage, slightly slower
- **Larger chunks (20-30s)**: Higher memory usage, slightly faster
- **Recommended**: 10 seconds for most use cases

### GPU Acceleration

The separator automatically tries to use GPU acceleration:

1. **CUDA** (NVIDIA GPUs) - First choice
2. **DirectML** (Windows, any GPU) - Second choice
3. **CPU** - Fallback

Set `EnableGPU = false` to force CPU processing.

## Helper Methods

The library provides convenient helper methods:

### Using Embedded Model

```csharp
// Create default separator (all stems)
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateDefaultSeparator("output_directory");
separator.Initialize();
var result = separator.Separate("music.mp3");

// Create selector for specific stems
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateStemSelector(
    HTDemucsStem.Vocals | HTDemucsStem.Other,
    "output_directory"
);
```

### Using External Model File

```csharp
using var separator = HTDemucsExtensions.CreateFromFile(
    "path/to/htdemucs.onnx",
    "output_directory"
);
```

## Progress Tracking

The example includes progress tracking:

```csharp
separator.ProgressChanged += (s, progress) =>
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{progress.Status}: {progress.OverallProgress:F1}%");
    Console.WriteLine($"Chunks: {progress.ProcessedChunks}/{progress.TotalChunks}");
};

separator.ProcessingCompleted += (s, result) =>
{
    Console.WriteLine($"Completed in {result.ProcessingTime}");
    Console.WriteLine($"Extracted {result.StemCount} stems");
};
```

## Performance

Typical performance on various hardware:

| Hardware | Processing Speed | Example (3 min song) |
|----------|------------------|---------------------|
| CPU (16 cores) | 10-15x realtime | ~12-18 seconds |
| GPU (NVIDIA RTX 3060) | 50-100x realtime | ~2-4 seconds |
| GPU (NVIDIA RTX 4090) | 100-150x realtime | ~1-2 seconds |

## Memory Usage

- **Chunk-based processing**: ~500-800 MB for 10s chunks
- **Full song**: Memory scales with chunk size, not total duration
- **4 stems output**: Each stem is same size as input audio

## Code Architecture

The implementation uses OwnAudioEngine's high-performance converters:

- **AudioDecoderFactory**: Loads and decodes audio files
- **AudioFormatConverter**: Resamples and converts channels
- **SimdAudioConverter**: SIMD-accelerated PCM to Float32 conversion

Key features:

- **Embedded model**: No external model file needed
- **Streaming processing**: Processes audio in chunks to minimize memory
- **Overlap-add reconstruction**: Smooth transitions between chunks
- **Zero-allocation design**: Reuses buffers to reduce GC pressure
- **Lock-free buffers**: Thread-safe audio processing

## Troubleshooting

### "Model is not set" or "Model file not found"

- If using embedded model: Ensure `Model = InternalModel.HTDemucs` is set
- If using external model: Check that `ModelPath` points to a valid .onnx file

### "Input file not found"

- Check the audio file path is correct
- Supported formats: MP3, WAV, FLAC

### "Out of memory"

- Reduce `ChunkSizeSeconds` (try 5 seconds)
- Close other applications
- Use a 64-bit build

### Slow processing

- Enable GPU acceleration: `EnableGPU = true`
- Install CUDA toolkit for NVIDIA GPUs
- Use larger chunks if you have enough memory

### Poor separation quality

- Ensure you're using a proper HTDemucs ONNX model
- Check that the embedded model was correctly included in the build
- Some audio (highly compressed, very old recordings) may not separate well

## Model Information

The embedded HTDemucs model is automatically included in the OwnaudioNET assembly as an embedded resource. This means:

✅ No need to download or manage model files
✅ Works immediately after installation
✅ Included in the NuGet package
✅ Portable across platforms

If you need to use a different or updated HTDemucs model, you can always provide an external model file path using the `ModelPath` option.

## License

This example is part of OwnAudioSharp and is licensed under the MIT License.

## Credits

- **HTDemucs Model**: Facebook Research (Hybrid Transformer Demucs)
- **OwnAudioSharp**: ModernMube
- **ONNX Runtime**: Microsoft
